Now in order for us to duplicate that session persistence that we had before.
We want to make sure that we check against our awful library whether or not this current user session
is still persisting.
So before when we did off to on state.
Changed once this code initialized the off library would of course give us our user auth object.
The moment it was called for the first time.
Even if auth state had not changed.
But we're actually going to duplicate this functionality except using a saga as well as that action
pattern that we've got.
So what we can do is we've got to make a new action to actually issue our saga to check.
So we're gonna need a new user action called check user session and what this will do is this will tell
our saga.
Once the app initialize is so we're still going to put it in component in Mount to check again if the
user's off has persisted.
So what we're going to also make is a new action called check user section and it's just a call to make
the method user action type.
Check user session.
We're gonna pass this into our dispatch so we're gonna make sure to bring this in
to our app code.
We've got to recreate our map dispatch to props which gets the dispatch
and is simply a method that dispatches our action
pass that back into our connect and d structure us in our component did mount
and then we issue it and now we should see that when our app initialize us we fire off our check user
social action.
So we now we just got to write the listener to actually perform this check now it is out of our user
saga we are going to make a new saga called check user session or let's say on Czech user session because
we're listening for it and we'll yield.
Take the latest user action stock check user session and here we're gonna make a new method write a
new generator function that will perform the check.
So what we're gonna write is the method is gonna be called is user authenticated
and this will be our generator function.
Now how do we actually perform this check.
Well it turns out that there's no promise based way for us to get a snapshot of whether or not our current
user exists or not.
The only way we can do it is we can actually make a new utility method that will leverage the existing
code that we had before of checking against that on snapshot authenticated method.
But we'll just unsubscribe immediately after we get the initial value.
So what does that mean.
Well let's let's write it up first.
So we're going to export out this new method called get current user
and what we want to do is want to.
We want to return a new promise.
Right.
Because we want to return a promise oriented solution that our sagas can yield for because our saga
is just like async await work off of promises.
So we're gonna make a new promise.
Right we're going to pass our resolve and reject values.
And then what we're gonna do is we're going to actually do the same unsubscribe pattern we had calling
our off dot on off state changed method that we had before.
We'll get our user off object
and then once we get it we're going to immediately unsubscribe once we unsubscribe.
We're gonna resolve with our user object our user object and if it fails we'll just reject it with whatever
air we get back.
So again if you remember this on off state changed or on snapshot methods on or off take either the
sexy call way which gives us back the correct value or they take a secondary error functional callback
that gives us the error.
So we're just gonna pass it to reject.
So now when we return this promise this promise will resolve to the correct user off value.
If there is one if there isn't.
It'll just resolve us back not as we had before in our AFGE code if you remember.
And then of course we'll be able to reject and catch any errors inside of this API call or this API
listener.
So now we're gonna get current user pass it in to our utility and into our saga and what we're gonna
do is we're going to actually check for this thing how we're gonna use it is the same way as we did
with all of our other API calls we're gonna write our tribal and we're gonna make sure to have our catch
and our catch is going to do a similar sign and failure right.
Because if there is a failure in this process then we know for sure there might be something wrong with
our sign in and now what we're gonna do is we're gonna get back our user off object when we call this
method because as we remember what the on off state change gives us back is the same user off object
that we get here.
Right.
Except it's under the user key when we get it back using these methods here as we remember we get back
that user off object and now we're gonna say if user off is null.
Right.
So let's say it turns out the user has never actually signed it.
So there's no session here.
We're just going to return out of this function.
We don't want to do anything else.
We're going to end the function if instead there is a value what we want to do is we want to call the
same get snapshot from user off except we're going to use our user off and we also have to make sure
to pass this into our user saga to make sure we're listening for that action as well and we know where
instantiating it on component amount.
So if we go back we'll see that we have our check user session and then sign it success.
So now we have persistence if we refresh write our application we'll check if there's such a user exists
and then sign them in if there is one if we don't have one.
So I just click sign off status update and if I refresh right.
Check user session checks.
There's no user signed in because we just signed out and now our state our app just continues as normal
so pretty cool we've managed to extrapolate pretty much all of our persistence into this new saga as
well as create a way for us to in a promise oriented way get back whether or not the user off exists
using this new get current user utility that we wrote.
So now let's actually update our code so that when we sign out it's also successful because right now
there's no way for our application to actually sign out properly.
So let's build that in the next lesson.